# Jamaican Slave Revolt

## Overview
Produced for Dr. Vincent Brown’s African Rebellion Project, this map charts the events of the 1760-1761 insurrection in Jamaica. Dr. Brown is an eminent historian, award-winning author, and Charles Warren Professor of History and Professor of African and African American Studies at Harvard University. His project presents groundbreaking new insights into the political history of slavery and shows how African slaves in Jamaica capitalized on the opportunities presented by Britain’s involvement in the Seven Year War against France and Spain, to stage a major revolt that was arguably the most significant in West Indian history. Using extensive thematic narrative and interactive cartography expert historians and the public can now better understand what actually happened and see the revolt, as far as possible, for what it was – a strategic, carefully engineered, military campaign influenced by the island’s topography.

## Data
The use of primary historic data for visualisations is always plagued by questions of reliability and this narrative database is by no means exhaustive. However, Dr. Brown’s expertise, together with the meticulously kept records of the events of the revolt lends considerable authenticity to this map and reveals the spatial dynamics of the military campaign. The map shows key events and locations, approximate routes taken by the different forces (rebels, militia, maroons etc.), and major clashes (including casualties), all supplemented by a detailed narrative. 

## Design
Working alongside Dr Brown, to collect and interpret the data it was then translated to JSON – enabling it to be read by the map. The focus was on keeping the design as simple as possible with content being the paramount consideration. On the UI, the data is presented on a historic basemap with a small bar across the top describing the action, a timeline running along the bottom, and a side bar containing primary source quotes. A detailed narrative highlights and links key events, the timeline gives temporal context, provides ease of navigation and charts elapsed time, while the basemap gives a sense of place and allows the user to move back and forth in the narrative to see how the terrain affected movement. 

## Code
The primary challenge of this project was finding a way to present qualitative, highly narrative, primary historic data in a simple, intuitive digital format. The map had to allow users to experience both the events and their significance while still keeping the cartography simple and time and content central. Using a basemap overlaid with primary data and incorporating extended animation capabilities, Dr. Brown is able to retell this important story with compelling clarity. Built on the open source Leaflet platform using JavaScript and HTML5, the map employs a responsive design with a fully integrated narrative that can be easily accessed and fully experienced without an Internet connection. Open source codes are available at: https://github.com/axismaps/revolt